##  **Software issue**

### ***\*mystudio Related\****

 

#### ***\*Q: Error message when downloading firmware,how to deal with it?\****

1. Check if the network connection is normal. It is necessary to connect to the network to download the firmware.
2. Select the firmware corresponding to the model of the robot, and do not select the wrong model.
3. Download and install the driver. If the driver cannot be recognized after downloading, try to replace it with the latest CH340 driver. Driver link: https://www.wch.cn/download/CH341SER_EXE.html
4. Finally, you can try using another USB cable or computer to download.

 

### ***\*MyBlockly Related\****

Q: Encounter error message: ModuleNotFoundError: No module named "pymycobot", how to deal with it?

<div align=center> < img src="../../../resources/3-UserNotes/14-IssueFAQ/s1.png"> </div>

The error message indicating the lack of the pymycobot file package includes the reasons and solutions as follows:

① If pymycobot is not installed, the corresponding solution is to reinstall pymycobot with the command pip3 install pymycobot --upgrade --user.

② If "Add Pythonxx to PATH" is not selected during the installation of Python, you need to uninstall Python and reinstall it, and select this option.

<div align=center> < img src="../../../resources/3-UserNotes/14-IssueFAQ/s2.png"> </div>


#### ***\*Q: Unable to click run myblockly, how to solve it?\****

This is because the serial port is occupied, resulting in the inability to click the run button. You need to check if there is serial port occupation in the serial port tool of myblockly and other serial ports. If you want to run the code, you need to close the buttons in the figure below before clicking run. The serial port tool needs to be turned off before it can be run, otherwise there will be a serial port conflict.

 

<div align=center> < img src="../../../resources/3-UserNotes/14-IssueFAQ/s3.png"> </div>

 

#### ***\*Q: How to use the serial port tool of myblockly?\****

Please refer to the link:

https://drive.google.com/file/d/1pDR-WBjkGrLcRdeshDmAMIWbEpu_jsJW/view?usp=sharing

####  

#### ***\*Q: Is it normal for the program result to display "child process exited with code 1"?\****

This is not an error. It means that all the programs have run to completion and returned binary number 1, indicating that they have all run successfully.

 

#### ***\*Q: Error MyCobot.int() takes 2 positional arguments but 3 were given.\****

This error occurs in older versions of myblockly because the versions of myblockly and pymycobot do not match. You can solve it by updating myblockly and pymycobot driver libraries. For M5 version robots, download the latest myblockly directly from the official software download page; for PI and JN versions of robots, please refer to the link for updating myblockly:

 https://drive.google.com/file/d/1E7uEbzN4nNuvYyJDgD3z72SSA3nyH0eG/view?usp=sharing

The command for updating pymycobot is pip3 install pymycobot --upgrade --user.

 

#### ***\*Q: Myblockly programs saved in PI or JN are not effective or cannot be found?\****

① After saving the file, the file extension should be added ".json", for example: "pump.json".

② Confirm the saved path and find the saved file in the saved path.

<div align=center> < img src="../../../resources/3-UserNotes/14-IssueFAQ/s4.png"> </div>

 

#### ***\*Q: Why am I refused connection when selecting a certain COM port? Or, how do I find the corresponding COM port?\****

<div align=center> < img src="../../../resources/3-UserNotes/14-IssueFAQ/s5.png"> </div>

The reason for the connection refusal is due to selecting the wrong COM port. When you have multiple devices connected to the USB ports of your computer, MyBlockly will display multiple serial ports as well, such as COM4 and COM5 in the example above. However, only one of them is for the robotic arm. You need to select the serial port corresponding to the robotic arm to connect and use it properly. Clearly, the COM4 port, which can be connected normally, is the current serial port corresponding to the robotic arm.

To find the serial port corresponding to the robotic arm among multiple serial ports, you can try unplugging and re-plugging the serial cable connected to the robotic arm and observe which serial port disappears from the COM port options in MyBlockly when the connection between the robotic arm and the computer is disconnected. When you reconnect the robotic arm to the computer via USB, this serial port reappears in the COM port options in MyBlockly. The serial port that disappears and appears in sync with the disconnection and reconnection of the robotic arm in MyBlockly is the serial port corresponding to the robotic arm.

Please note that the COM port number for the robotic arm is not always fixed. It may change when connected to different USB ports on the same computer or when connected to USB ports on different computers. It is recommended to use the above method to check the real-time COM port number.

 

 

### ***\*Python Related\****

 

#### ***\*Q: Encounter error message: ModuleNotFoundError: No module named "pymycobot", how to deal with it?\****

The error message indicating the lack of the pymycobot file package includes the reasons and solutions as follows:

① If pymycobot is not installed, the corresponding solution is to reinstall pymycobot with the command pip3 install pymycobot --upgrade --user.

② If "Add Pythonxx to PATH" is not selected during the installation of Python, you need to uninstall Python and reinstall it, and select this option.

<div align=center> < img src="../../../resources/3-UserNotes/14-IssueFAQ/s6.png"> </div>


#### ***\*Q: How to handle the situation where sometimes there is no response after writing coordinates in coordinate control?\****

For coordinate motion, first ensure that the coordinate can be reached by joint motion. Generally, it is achieved by moving the joint to the specified point and then reading the coordinate value for control. Most artificially written coordinates are invalid. It is recommended not to write coordinates directly, but to release the joint and manually rotate the joint to the target position. After recording the coordinates using get_coords(), use send_coords() to set the coordinates. You can refer to the following code:

```python
# Import the official python API
from pymycobot.mycobot import MyCobot
# Import the time module
import time

# Set the serial connection, serial port, baud rate
# PI version
mc = MyCobot('/dev/ttyAMA0', 115200)
# M5 version, specific serial port number needs to be checked in the device manager
mc = MyCobot('COM0', 115200)
# Set a short wait time, 0.5 seconds
time.sleep(0.5)
# Release all joints of the robotic arm, please hold the robotic arm with your hand
mc.release_all_servos()
# Set the wait time, which can be changed as needed. At this time, the robotic arm can be moved to the target position.
time.sleep(5)
# Power on the robotic arm again and fix it in the target position
mc.power_on()
# Read the current position's coordinate information and angle information, and output it to the console
print('coords:', mc.get_coords())
print('angles:', mc.get_angles())

```



#### ***\*Q: Could you provide a more accessible explanation for the "mode" parameter in the function send_coords(coords, speed, mode)?\****

Certainly. The "mode" parameter in the function **send_coords(coords, speed, mode)** determines the movement behavior of the robotic arm's end effector when reaching the target position. When "mode" is set to 1 (linear mode), the end effector follows a straight-line path to reach the target position. However, if obstacles, mechanical constraints, or structural limitations prevent the arm from moving in a straight line, the instruction may not be executed entirely. On the other hand, when "mode" is set to 0 (non-linear mode), the end effector reaches the target position in any orientation, without the constraint of following a straight-line path. This mode reduces the likelihood of instructions not being executed due to path restrictions.

 

#### ***\*Q: What is the difference between interpolation and refresh modes in the function set_fresh_mode(mode)?\****

The "interpolation" mode, denoted by 0, involves planning numerous densely spaced points between the starting and ending points of a trajectory. This enables control over the trajectory of the intermediate segments and facilitates parallel programming. Conversely, the "non-interpolation" mode, represented by 1, lacks the planning of intermediate segments, thereby limiting control over the trajectory. However, movements in this mode tend to be relatively smooth due to the absence of trajectory segmentation.

 

#### ***\*Q: Is it normal for the trajectory not to be straight up and down when only the Z-axis is changed, but the final landing point is adjusted only in the Z-axis? How can the middle trajectory be ensured to be straight?\****

<div align=center> < img src="../../../resources/3-UserNotes/14-IssueFAQ/s8.png"> </div>

To ensure a straight trajectory, activating interpolation (set_fresh_mode(0)) facilitates trajectory planning between the starting and ending points. By specifying linear motion (mode=1) in the **send_coords(coords, speed, mode)** function after enabling interpolation, the straight-line trajectory is maintained. It's crucial to activate interpolation before setting the intelligent planning route in **send_coords** to be effective. Interpolation involves planning densely spaced points between the start and end points of the trajectory, ensuring control over the intermediate segment's trajectory.

 

#### ***\*Q: What does it mean when the return value of get_error_information() is -1?\****

 When the return value of get_error_information() is -1, it indicates a communication failure. This typically occurs when the robot controller is unable to establish communication with the device. To resolve this issue, you should check the following:

1. Ensure that the power adapter and USB cable are properly connected to the device.
2. Verify if the LCD screen displays the "Atom: ok" interface. If the screen does not show this interface, it indicates a potential connection problem.
3. If the connections are not successful and the "ok" message is not displayed, it is recommended to reconnect the cables and retest the communication.

 

### ***\*Arduino Related:\****

 

Q: Are there any joint control examples for 280arduino?

Yes, such examples are available. Please refer to the following link: 

https://drive.google.com/file/d/1S5CifuYYcSMBFbzfVFws4AuSNjEr6cxn/view?usp=drive_link

####  

#### ***\*Q: Can Arduino UNO be controlled via serial communication?\****

No, Arduino UNO boards can only be controlled using the provided routines and by calling the API interfaces we offer. To enable serial communication control, either replacing the mainboard or using a USB to TTL module is necessary.

 

#### ***\*Q: How can Arduino be controlled via serial communication?\****

Without any main control board, connecting a USB to TTL module (TX, RX, GND) allows serial communication. You can use a serial assistant tool to send the serial commands we provide, facilitating control over joint movements, among other functions. 

<div align=center> < img src="../../../resources/3-UserNotes/14-IssueFAQ/s9.jpg"> </div>

When using this method, ensure the baud rate is set to 1000000 and the corresponding port is selected. 

<div align=center> < img src="../../../resources/3-UserNotes/14-IssueFAQ/s10.png"> </div>

In robot free mode (with all torque outputs turned off), sending the example command FE FE 03 1A 01 FA via serial ensures joint movement, requiring the Atom button to be held after the Atom light turns yellow.

<div align=center> < img src="../../../resources/3-UserNotes/14-IssueFAQ/s11.jpg"> </div>


### ***\*ROS Related:\****

 

#### ***\*Q: Is there a pre-configured virtual machine image with ROS environment?\****

Yes, we provide a pre-configured virtual machine image with ROS1 and embedded ROS source code. Users can download this image from the provided link and import the virtual machine file into VirtualBox. This eliminates the need for manual environment setup, and we recommend using our pre-configured virtual machine environment for testing ROS examples to avoid errors resulting from environment configuration issues.

 

#### ***\*Q: How to import the virtual machine file into virtual machine software?\****

Please refer to the operation steps in the video tutorial on importing virtual machine files into virtual machine software:

https://drive.google.com/file/d/1KeYk_CUgDE46rVn7zbd0EhraIbgt3qZt/view?usp=sharing

 

#### ***\*Q: Raspberry Pi and Jetson Nano machines experience occasional lags when using ROS. Are there optimization methods available?\****

Raspberry Pi and Jetson Nano, despite their powerful functionalities as small-scale computers, may experience lags due to their limited hardware configurations. This is particularly evident when executing tasks requiring substantial computational resources, such as image recognition, during ROS development. Performance issues primarily stem from inadequate hardware capabilities and insufficient computing power. To address this, consider the following optimization methods:

①Code optimization: Enhance code efficiency by reducing unnecessary computations to alleviate the burden on Raspberry Pi and Jetson Nano.

②Hardware upgrade: Consider upgrading to higher-performance Raspberry Pi models or alternative hardware platforms with superior computing capabilities, such as NVIDIA NX series mainboards.

③Distributed computing: Distribute tasks across multiple devices to distribute the workload and enhance overall system performance.

###  